And after you left St. Mary's, then what happened?
Well, that was in 31. I came back here to A&M and
finished up on my degree. And I hadn't gotten my
degree like I should have. I went off. I had a few
hours, and I was a freshman coach with Roswell
Higginbotham. freshman coach and we had a very
good team at the end so then I went back to San
Antonio
and after the finishing that year up I think that
was 32 and the fall of 32 I helped coach and promoted
games there in San Antonio and and then that in
April
as a line coach, with the understanding that if he
won, that I'd be here for, you know, the regular
time. I was, well, it wasn't an intern coach, I
guess a seasonal coach, with the understanding
that, see, he was on the spot then, although he had
some pretty good seasons, so I was getting tired of
him. He hadn't won any championships, see?
Mm-hmm. So I came back over here, we moved, my
family came back over here, and I came over here in
April for spring training. And then I came back in
mid-August for the varsity season. And we had a
good season. We had 6-3-1. Tied Texas on Kyle
Field. But that wasn't good enough for the farm
students, so they just they told Matty that he'd
have to leave. And that's when he went to SMU as
assistant coach under Morrison. What kind of
coach was Matty Bell? He was a good coach. He was a
good, sound, fundamental coach and a very likable
man in the practice business. He had a lot to do
with, you might say, in my life because I did come
back to A&M and got my degree. And then I was his
assistant here, and what was going on. We would
have gone to North Carolina University, but if
they hadn't fired Matty before the season was
over. But he was a very good coach, very good sound.
He was a whole lot like Mr. Bible. Who replaced
Matty Bell then? Homer Norton. Homer Norton came
on. Yeah, he came on. And Norton tried to hire me
back after I went. Then I left here and went back to
San Antonio to coach high school for a while. What
high school then? At Black Ridge first as a track
coach and a line coach, and then I went to Thomas
Jefferson. I had good success there. I had boys
like Kyle Roten. Oh my, yes. Dick McKissick and
Weldon Humble and Charlie Parker. I got into
coaching track, and I made probably the biggest
success of my track coaching I did in my football. I
had a wonderful season over there. Six seasons I
played for the state champions against Odessa in
1946 in Austin and had one of the biggest crowds I
ever had at a high school game.
There was a coach at SMU. Hayden Frye. Yeah, Hayden
Frye was their quarterback.
How come you decided not to go to work for Homer
Norton? Was there any particular reason you
didn't want to go back? When I left here, A&M was
good to me, and I didn't have really any animosity
toward anybody. But I knew that the coaching in
colleges was so uncertain. And in 1945, he asked me
to come back over here as one of his assistants, but
I declined, which was a good move. And then Mr. Bell
wanted me to go to SMU to be his line coach and track
coach up there, and I declined that too. He just
figured that it was not enough job security.
That's right. And I did have it in high school,
although the salaries in those days that the
coaches
So what I was making, so I was athletic director and
head of football and track coach at Thomas
Jefferson. I won two state track championships
there and I had some great sprinters for those
days. Charlie Parker, I don't remember, but they
were boys could run nine, six, nine, seven, which
was unheard of 30 years ago. But, and then I was a
very good friend of Harry Stadler's and Bill
Carmichael.
And so after I turned down Mr. Norton's,
didn't accept his position here at A&M, and then
turned down Matty Bell's, well, Harry Stotley,
who was a good friend of mine, we were friends in
high school circles at that time, and Bill
Carmichael was made athletic director after
Norton left, and Stotley was made head football
coach. called me several times and wanted me to
come back over here and I told them no. I was well
situated and they kept calling me and kept calling
me and finally they caught me at a weak moment in
which it was a good move for me. Did you know Norton
very well? I knew him pretty well. I did know him.
Mr. Norton, he made a wonderful record here. But
see, we weren't in the same circles at that time. I
was coaching in high school. I knew him, but we did
not on too personal. You had no idea what kind of
coach he was? Well, the only thing I can say is he had
the second best record they ever had at the end.
After Bibles, I guess Norton was the best. But he
was on his way out. He hadn't won nothing. They
hadn't won a national championship in 39. He was on
his way out, too. The only friend you have in
coaching is the scoreboard.
At least in college. The very guys that pat you on
the back and glove you up while they're hiring you,
they're the very ones that kick you out when you
don't lose. There's only one thing. I hate to say
it, but there's only one thing. It's win and lose.
Losing, that's what. Yeah. Well, then you came
here in what year? 48. 48. And what was your
position? Freshman coach. Freshman coach in 48. I
had a good freshman team. How'd you all do that
here? We won them all except one game when they beat
us, and they would beat us on a long pass. We beat
Texas and Bryce and TC and SMU. Did you have any
outstanding players on that team? Yes.
Harry did a fine job in recruiting me. Anytime a new
coach comes in, he does a good job. We had some boys
like Littman,
Bob Smith, Billy Tidwell, and the backfield, and a
boy like Yale Larry.
I've got a picture of a bunch of those players back
there. We had a good, sound freshman team who later
And so how long was your freshman coach? Well, in
48. And then in July, 49, Carl Michael was then
athletic director. And he resigned to accept the
superintendent. Hey. Hello. This is my wife, Mrs.
Chapman. How are you? Shall I bring you a cup of
coffee or a Coke? You want a Coke, a cup of coffee? A
cup of coffee would be very nice. Sugar and cream?
Sugar and cream, please. Yes, ma'am. Thank you.
Okay, lost my train of thought. You were talking
about... Yeah, we were talking about you were a
freshman coach in 48, and then you said you... In
July of 49, Mr. Carmichael, who was athletic
director, resigned to become superintendent of
the school in Bryan. Why that ever chose me, I don't
know, but I guess that made me athletic director.
It turned out to be a pretty good deal. Yeah, that's
right, a pretty good deal. So you were athletic
director then? Well, I was athletic director from
48 or 49 up until Brian came here. Then I was
associate athletic director. Could you tell us a
little bit about this time until Brian got here?
The coaches you worked for, what was going on?
Well, at that time, when Stidler resigned, Mr.
Gilchrist was president of the university at that
time. You see, I worked under some very, very
conservative presidents. What I mean by that,
they said, you make it down there or else don't come
up here asking us for any money. You see what I mean?
Because they didn't have any money to give us
because A&M in Texas had to, they were
self-supporting. We didn't get any appropriated
funds from the state. And well, when I took over the
first thing, wanted to do was to, we had a little old
press box, you don't know, I haven't seen the
picture. Same pictures of it, yes sir. The old
press box and we didn't have any, we had an original
stadium which was built in 27 and then I think
finished in 29 and at that time when I took over we
didn't have any money at all. We just got through,
Norton had done a good job with, with handling the
money during his, because we had the big stadium
stadium debts still to be paid off. And at one time,
when I was back there, going back, re-enhancing
back, I can remember in 33, the state didn't have
any money. I mean, the athletic department didn't
have any money. They'd give you a voucher. And we
had a very, very small budget to operate on. Sorry,
I ran a cream this morning.
All right. And I took over where we just finished
building the dressing rooms underneath the
President's Stadium. And I think we had $25,000 in
the kitty, and we owed some money.
And like I said before, I have all the highest
regard for all the presidents of A&M College. they
were conservative, they were minded people
because they didn't have any money. We hadn't hit
the plateau of earnings coming in like we did
there. So the first thing I did was to enlarge
enlarged the stadium and put up a few. You don't
remember when we had 2,600 seats up there in the
press box. Well, this was the new addition that
came up. It was narrow. That's right. When was this
built? That was built in 1951. I think 1951 or 1952
at the cost of $350,000. How did you all raise the
money for that? Well, I pole barred it. They said I
couldn't do it. I'm being a very pessimistic
person anyhow. I tried it, and we sold those
options out at $50
apiece, I believe. The records, I don't have them
in the National Labor Department. We raised about
$100,000, and we had a little money. I'd
accumulated a little money. Now,
I've been known as pretty tight with athletic
department money, but I wasn't tight with it.
Athletics is a business. Of course, it's just a
question of have- Either have it or don't have it.
Now, we had just as many scholarships. We had just
as many coaches. Harry Stoddler had seven or eight
coaches. And we get past Harry's deal, and I'll get
to others. But you're asking about the finances.
And I borrowed $60,000 from a forum of students.
And they said, well, no, we don't want to let you. We
don't want you to get the money back or nothing. So
we hit it pretty lucky because we had a game with
Michigan State that I'd gotten a hold of. And
a streak of luck hit us because it was a televised
game. Oh, I see. And in those days, you didn't have
to give your, Southwest Conference, 80% of the
money belonged to you. And that was one reason why
this rule went into effect. I think we got about
$89,000 out of the game, which was a lot of money in
those days. Certainly. See? And after we played
the game and we'd gotten all this money counting, I
think we got 120 counting the television rights,
and Michigan State was a good gate. why we had about
$120,000. Well, the conference then wanted some
of that money. We told them, well, there's nothing
in your rules and regulations about it. We'll
divide it with you. So the following year, they put
in this regulation. So I took that money and paid
it. In two years, the stadium was complete. I think
the press box costs $100,000. And you mentioned
the good gates. When you're scheduling, games in
advance? Did you all try to look for big draws? Big
draws. And that's one of the things that the board
of directors always jumped on me about. You see, I
had LSU, Michigan State, Michigan, Ohio State,
schools like that. We weren't drawing anything.
Big stadiums up there. And they draw. We weren't
drawing for 15,000, 18,000 people here. We had to
do it. We had to do it. So those were real money
makers. Money makers in those days. And even
today, I started the series again with LSU back 10
years ago, 12, 15 years ago, way before I retired as
athletic director. You know what that game is
bringing in and out? Next year, $150,000. Good,
good. That's marvelous. Now, what... The last
three years that a contractor got with them, I was
very much criticized by taking them because you
ought to be playing them up here. Well, LSU
wouldn't come up here. They play seven games a
year. You know what that's going to mean to us? That
contract expires in 75 next year. It means that
you've got to supplant that with another game
about 50,000. And athletic department now...
Mm-hmm. It had been subsidized by the Aggie Club.
We didn't have the Aggie Club. I organized the
Aggie Club in 1950. You did. How'd that come about?
How'd you decide? Well, they said they couldn't do
that. Well, I paid off my debt there, and we
scrounged around and got these good football
games.
Texas had a longhorn club, and SMU had the Mustang
club, and TCU had the hard and foggy club. So I
organized that, which they said we couldn't do.
But it didn't amount to too much during those days.
But it was the foundation and the organization of
it that finally now is without it, we couldn't
operate. That was, I think, organized in 52. Well,
what you're saying then is you really don't make
enough off the gates to run your athletic
facility. No. We did it then, those days, by
careful managing of our money. But still, we had
everything that the other teams had, too. Could
you run through some expenses as to where the money
goes? In other words, what salaries for coaches?
Now? Yeah, what... You mean now? What you have to
pay out. Next year, I understand, the budget's
going to be $1,500,000. Mm-hmm. Of that amount,
now, I haven't got an idea of the budget. I mean, I
haven't seen it, but I imagine close to $500,000
would be the salary.
Mm-hmm. That's really something. Or if you take
the scholarships, it would be 200 scholarships,
say, at $1,500. That's how much more. That's
$300,000. That's $800,000. Mm-hmm. See, like
that. Then you're traveling, I don't know. And of
course, football really has to carry the load for
all the others, too. That's right. That's right.
One question that bugs me, does basketball make
enough? No, it doesn't make them enough. It won't,
because I don't know what the budget for
basketball is. I did have a budget here. I imagine
the budget for basketball, I mean, don't take this
as accurate because I don't know. I could get it for
you if you wanted. No, I was just curious to know. I
imagine basketball runs around $100,000. I just
wondered if they made enough off of basketball
maybe to break even. No. And of course, track makes
almost nothing. Nothing, and baseball makes
nothing. Nearly nothing. Swimming and golf and
tennis, they don't make nothing. But the whole
thing is made to the idea of carrying on a complete
athletic program.
star, well, of course, it makes some money. But you
see, besides that money, we get a lot of money from
the conference every year. From the television?
Television. You see, all the television money of
all the teams in the Cotton Bowl money and all that
goes into the pot. You see? And I think the
department got over $120,000 this year from the
proceeds from the conference. Well, that
certainly helps. It helps, yeah. Well, I noticed
this next year we have a nationally televised game
with the University of Texas. Nationally
televised? Yes, sir. Well, I might explain to you
that. 80% goes to Southwest Conference. That's
this kitty we have. And then it used to be 4% goes to
NCAA. That's 84%. And then the two competing teams
divide. Split a little bit. Yeah, 16% of it. And if
it's a national televised game, of course, it's
worth a lot more. I think $300,000, I guess, over
the round, $300,000. Just on the television. I
used to know exactly the amount. Well, yeah, I
understand that. Well, now, we were talking about
the early days. We were up to about 1950, 51, and the
additions to the stadium. Yeah. Can you tell us a
little more what went on then in succeeding years
and what some of your accomplishments, problems,
frustrations maybe are? Well, Mr. Stiler
resigned, and then I was confronted with hiring a
new football coach. You were? Yeah. I was still
athletic director. And I suppose people put
pressure on you then. Well, it wasn't so much
pressure, but it was the amount of money that the
administration told me I could pay one. Oh, I see.
What did they pay a football coach in those days? I
think Stiler was getting $8,500, $10,000. Of
course, that wasn't bad. No. But I went, the
administration said, now you can hire a football
coach, but he can't be over $3,500. He can't be for
one year. How come one year? Well, the Norton deal,
you know, they paid out home of Norton, you know,
and the administration had gone from one extreme
to the other. They had to buy Norton's contract.
That's right. They bought his contract. Which was
only fair. That's right. That's right. But now I
had a frustration because I had some fine coaches
that I had interviewed. And when I told them what
the proposition was, they laughed at me. I'm not
surprised. I said, what's the matter? Are you
crazy? They didn't tell me that in words, but I
surmised that. So I didn't know what to do. So Mr.
Williams, who was the athletic council member at
that time, came to me and said, now, you've got to
get a coach here and get it soon, or else you're
going to have to take it.
So I'd been through this long. I said, well, I don't
want to stay at College Station one or two years. I
do want to stay here a little longer. So I went to
Harry Stidler, who was a good friend of mine, and
asked him who would he recommend on the staff
that could fill the shoes of the head coach. And he
said, well, Ray George, who had a fine background.
He was a USC football player, played professional
football, and he coached at USC. And he was hired to
start as a line coach. So we hired Ray, I think, at
8,000 a year.
Well, he was a fine gentleman. And he was best liked
football coach, I believe, as far as the former
students were concerned. I've heard this.
Anybody we had here. But he wasn't a coach. Maybe he
wasn't a head coach. He wasn't a head coach, that's
it. So Ray didn't have such bad. Now we come up to
this 1950. See, it's 49, 50, 51. Let's see, Harry
quit in 49, 50, 51. It's 51 team which should have
won the conference. That was Steitler's team,
wasn't it? Yeah. And then he quit in 51. He quit in 50
and 51. Then Ray George for a year. Oh, it's
not important, we can, that's... It's 51, 52, 53,
and then Brian came in 54. Ray
was a fine gentleman, but he just wasn't a head
coach. The head coach nowadays, you just can't go
out and pick up a guy and coach the ends over here for
some school. He has to know the entire functions of
a football team, which includes the offense, the
defense, the linebacker, the end play, the
quarterback play, the halfback play, tackle
play, defense, secondary defense. He has to have a
complete vision. If he doesn't, he has to hire
somebody that does know it and he don't know
whether he knows it or not. So there you are. You're
in a quandary. But Ray did fine, but then he didn't
have a very good season, so Ray finally, he was a
nice gentleman, a coach. He was nothing wrong with
Ray at all, but they disposed of him, asked him to
resign, which he did, and that was a manhunt for the
next coach. Where did Ray George go then? Do you
remember where he went? He went to work for Mr.
Dunn. Harold Dunn. J. Harold Dunn? J. Harold Dunn,
who at that time was with the Shamrock Oil Company.
And Ray, he hired him on some building of some
apartment complexes. But of course, Ray didn't
know anything about that. I think it was just a nice
way of getting rid of him. Maybe so. And he quit and
finally went back to USC, where I've lost track of
him. He's probably out in California. Yes, he's in
California. Okay, then we get up to the search for
the coach after he left. How did that search go?
Well, I was sort of on the spot back in 54. I'd been
here, I'd be 48, 49, 51, 52, 53. Five years as
athletic director and they actually just didn't
think that I was very progressive.
So I was given the task of getting a new head
football coach. So we went to Cincinnati, Ohio. At
that time, a fellow by the name of Mr. Penberthy was
the chairman of athletic council. And we went up
there, and we interviewed all whole unforgotten.
Jim Myers was one who later came here. And this guy
coaches the Rams out there. What was his name?
He's now coaching the San Diego Chargers. I should
know, but I can't think of his name. I know his name
as well as I do my own, but I can't think of it. And we
interviewed a lot of talent. This guy that's now,
Devine, who's coaching pro football, we
interviewed him. We practically hired him. But
then, of course, the boys' directors got into the
picture. And finally, I interviewed Coach
Bryant. And he was where, Kentucky then? I
interviewed him in Cincinnati. And I told him, I
said, Coach Bryant, I said, I don't have any, can't
give you any amount of money we can give you, but I
said, we'd like for you to come there. And I said,
you can have a head coaching job in the athletic
directorial too. I said, as far as I'm concerned,
because I know I'm on the way out, but I couldn't
make any kind of a deal.
I
came on back and by that time, LSU was trying to hire
him. But anyhow, they got in touch with him, some of
these foreign students or exes got in touch with
him and they finally persuaded him to come.
So one day I was trying to hire him and about a week,
10 days later, he was hiring me. So he had to rehire
you then. That's right. And what was your position
under Brian? I was associate assistant athletic
director. Which probably means you did all the
work for the office and he had the title.
Understand he came here also with a contract that
he got a certain percentage of the gate. Well,
we'll get to that later on.
He's, I call him the man of destiny. I don't care
where you go, everything you did, you've seen
people like that. Why in the devil can't I do that?
He does it. What do you call that? Charisma?
Charisma or something. Well, of course, you're
familiar with when he came here and when he took his
team out to Junction. You know all about that. I've
been out there. It's a rough place. But he did well.
Coach Brian did well. And this percentage deal
I'll get on to later, but the
first year, he didn't win but one game, if you look
at the records. I understand that. The second
year, he did a little better. And the third and
fourth year, he won the conference one year. But of
course, he was on probation. And of course, he
couldn't participate. What really got us on
probation without nailing down any names or
anything? You going to put that in the case? You
don't have to put any names in with it. Well,
there's a couple of cases. One case was they tried
to prove one of the stars that made Bryant a great
coach proved that he was bought or given more than
he's supposed to have been given. And then
secondly was they found out player from South
Texas was given a certain amount of, proved that.
That he was given certain
things that were not conforming to him with the
conference rules. I see. Do you think Bryant knew
about this, or? Oh, he knew about it just like Nixon
knows about Watergate. I see. I see. You can assume
that. I heard a story that he didn't even know that
he was going to be put on probation until he went up
to a conference meeting and was playing poker with
some... No, I knew about it in Waco. Of course,
Waco, they announced it when we had the conference
meeting up there. They announced it after the fact
of the meeting that they were put on probation. But
I knew it before that he did, actually. I heard a
story. I don't know if it's true that he found out
one night playing poker with Jess Neely and some of
the rest of them. No, I... Maybe you're correct,
but of course my only annoying about it was after
the conference meeting. I think it was held in
Wakefield. Well, how was Brian's brain here? Did
he rule with an iron hand? Yes, he was, he was, his
players, he ruled with an idea of fear. Players
liked him after he got out, but they thought he was a
while he was here. He was fair. He demanded 100%
from his players. As far as I'm concerned, my
relations with him were 100% good because he was
tight with the money, with the department's
money. He would shake down some of these exes, I
guess. That's what they say. I don't know. He'd
shake them down. We accumulated some money while
he was here and built Henderson Hall. Of course,
you had a With winning seasons, don't you make more
money when you've got a winning season? Yeah, but
there again, we hadn't gotten to the plateau where
A&M was really growing like the next year. They
ought to have some good crowds out there next year.
Well, we hope so. But it was improving, I'd say,
tremendously. Yeah, from the first year where you
win one and a little better. So that by 56 and 57, he
should have been drawing. Well, he was drawing
good, and we were making money. We were making
money. Had some television games, probably.
Television games. We were making money. When we
left here, we had some surplus. In fact, in 57, you
did get one bowl game, I believe, with Tennessee.
Went to Tennessee, and they beat us three to
nothing. I've forgotten what we got out of it, 60,
75. Of course, any time you can play an extra game,
that's a little more money, too. Well, not
altogether, because when last year I was here in
67, we played the Cotton Bowl and lost money. You
did? Yeah. How did you lose money on that? That's
interesting. Gene Stallings just spent money
like a wild man. Oh, my. I would have thought that
you would have. You see, the things have changed.
They divided the conference surplus up
differently. In other words, I think you would
give so much per mile plus $60,000. Now it's
$100,000. So you can spend $60,000 pretty quick if
you're going to watch yourself. You say spend
money. This was mainly on the team and their
housing and food. Invited everybody in the
country to come up there on expense. Well, it had
been a long time since that had ever happened.
That's right. Everybody went crazy. It was first
class. It was first class. I have no qualms about
that, because I was getting ready to retire. I
didn't care. Actually, I did care, but it wasn't
the sore spot of mine. You know, there's three
types of people. There's a type of person that's
tight with his own money, and they spend everybody
else's money. Is that right? Yes. And there's a
type of guy that's tight with his own money and
tight with everybody else's money. And there's a
type of person that spends his own money and tight
with... You see, out there, when I was there, I
figured that that was more or less a... I had to...
That was a state institution. I had to... It was a
sort of a... A public trust. A public trust is what I
thought. But you couldn't tell these exes that.
Especially some of the more successful ones.
That's right. Well, why did Bryant leave? Was it
more money? Well, he told me confidentially that
you couldn't win at A&M. And I agreed with him. I
mean, consistently. Now, get me wrong. Could you
explain that? You mean you could maybe have one
good season and then... Well, if you look at our
records, we have one good season about every 13
years, and then we're at the bottom of the heap, the
rest of them. Now, why? Well... I'm not against
A&M. I'm an Aggie getting around. Yeah, I agree. I
just think that maybe if we knew why, I could get a
lot of money over there. Well, I'll tell you why
Bryant said it was hard to recruit. Well, it was an
all-military school. An all-military school.
Second, we didn't have girls. Right. And thirdly,
it was how we were situated.
gets on the nerves of all the rest of these schools.
Why? Because they're jealous of us of what it is? I
don't know. I think there's a certain percentage
of that. See, jealousy. And because we have a rich
heritage and have so many things that we are proud
of. I think maybe they don't like us because we're
probably just a little bit clannish. Yeah. We
stick together. Stick together and clannish. And
we have a rich heritage. And we have a great spirit.
And no other school has, I don't imagine. Even the
armed service schools, Army and West Point Navy,
have us closely knitted together. They have a rich
tradition. But this is why he said he left, really.
It's because you couldn't leave. One reason, I
think, and the second reason was the fact that he
wanted to go back to Alabama, which he thought
would be a better all-around position than the one
at the A&M that he could accomplish
being the only school in Alabama except Auburn.
You see, if you stop and visualize this thing, and
I've always said this, and it's not to say anything
against schools that are land-grant schools, but
how many land-grant schools have great football
teams? Can you answer that question? It's
sporadic. They'll come up one year. Purdue comes
up one year. And then this doubt drops down. But now
how many schools like Ohio State and USC? Well,
Ohio State's a land-grant school. Yeah, it's
about the only one that you might say. But it was
made the major university. That's right. It's the
university first. And then the agriculture, it
seemed like LSU, it's a land-grant school. But
it's the only one. But it's the only university,
see. I see what you mean. See, it's the only
university. I can't see if we could go ahead and
have a good, strong program and finish, be at the
bottom. I believe in winning, being competitive.
But if we can be up there second or third, once in a
while win the conference, that's all we can ask of.
Yeah, I think so. See? But don't be on the bottom.
Nobody likes that, that's for sure. And as far as
the utensils or the material and the money and
everything, we spent as much money as anybody
except the University of Texas. Yeah, they're
having some money problems now, I noticed. That's
right. Now, after Bryant left, then who came
along? Myers. Myers. Did you hire him? No, it
wasn't until after Pohlberg left. Oh, I see. Okay.
So you were still assistant athletic director?
Assistant athletic director. Myers came in here,
it was sort of a shake out between, they were trying
to hire this guy, Notre Dame, what was his name,
Leahy. Frank? Frank Leahy, he came down here and
this guy from the Navy came, the Navy coach, I can't
think of his name, but anyhow they all come in here
just, but it was sort of a shake out. the
administration didn't want to hire some big-time
coach. I said, yeah, actually, that's what
happened. And so, Meyers, and we talked to Meyers'
head coach, one of, you said he had died, Red
Saunders, he came in here. We talked to him, we
talked to May, and we talked to a lot of other
big-time. But the administration didn't want any
big-time coaching, more coaching. Actually, the
experience with Bryant wasn't bad, but it was, And
he got along with the administration well, I
thought, but still there's something about him
that just
turned people against him. And the
administration, I don't know what it was. Maybe
they couldn't control him. Well, that's what they
thought. At that time, the president was Dr.
William, I forgot who was the president. Who was
the president at that time? He got it in there?
Mm-hmm. That would be Harrington for a while
there, and then Morgan came in 1956. Morgan joined
that, that's right. Morgan and Hinton couldn't
get along. That's unusual. One thing we might go
back to was the percentage, how Bryant arrived at
getting the percentage of the gate. Well, after
his first couple of years, we had a coach's house
over here on Greenview. I don't know whether
you've ever seen it. No, I haven't.
and all they sold. Well, Bryant bought it. Oh, I
see. He bought the house. So, the trade was made
after Bryant had a pretty successful year to get
more money. The asset department bought the house
from him, and that stirred up a lot of commotion
around here, because they paid him more than the
house was worth. You see what I mean? And then he got
entered in the contract with the board of
directors. The administration wasn't
responsible for it. Now, whether this was
documented, I don't know, but they guaranteed him
one-half or one percent of the gross percentage.
In other words, if you made $500,000 gross on your
football, you'd get whatever you want to figure,
half or one percent of the $5,000 worth. something
like one, one and a half percent. He was getting
subsidy anyhow out of the deal. If he drew a big gate
though, he could make a sizeable sum during the
year. That's right. Which was against actually
the rules and regulations of the Southwest
Conference and also- They knew about it though,
didn't they? They knew about it. And the college,
the college was one that was actually disturbed
about it because a state university giving them
coach half of their gate receipts, which actually
the money went through the athletic department
with state money. See, we were just a subsidiary of
the college. That drew a lot of concern and a lot of
bad publicity out of that. Excuse me just a minute.
You want to use the bathroom? You want some more
coffee? Could we talk a little bit about the
junction thing? Did you ever go out there? No, I
didn't go out there. He left me here. But it was
very, he went to junction and Dennis Gehringer, I
could tell you, over at the bank, he was one or two. I
understand that that maybe got the rule put in the
conference that you couldn't leave the campus
anymore. Why'd they do that? Well, when Brian came
in here, they opened up the eyes of most of these old
coaches like Dutch Meyer and Mattie wasn't
coaching then, but Jess Neely. Where was Dutch
Meyer? Over Texas? No, he was at TCU. TCU, okay. And
they took in after him. They thought that he was
coming over here to... See, up that time, this had
been a very good conference. The athletic
directors and coaches were very friendly, and
they were on good terms and everything. They
thought that Brian coming in here, that it was...
erupt into a conference
that was misdealing and breaking the rules and one
thing or another. But he wasn't fired or anything.
He just wanted to win. I have a high respect for him,
although
we got along fine. I thought when he actually got
his athletic director that he just
Yeah, straight. Well, you had to do all the work,
really, then, all the administrative work. If
you'll excuse me just a minute, I want to shut my
tape off and change. OK.